Improves documentation about modules management (#17757)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/modules_management.rst

create your own module so that Airflow can load it correctly, as well as
diagnose problems when modules are not loaded properly.

Often you want to use your own python code in your Airflow deployment,
for example common code, libraries, you might want to generate DAGs using
shared python code and have several DAG python files.

You can do it in one of those ways:

> * add your modules to one of the folders that airflow automatically adds to ``PYTHONPATH``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* add your modules to one of the folders that Airflow automatically adds to ``PYTHONPATH``
```

* add extra folders where you keep your code to ``PYTHONPATH``

> * package your code into Python package and install it together with Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* package your code into a Python package and install it together with Airflow.
```

The chapter follows with general description of how Python loads packages and modules and dives

> deeper into the specific of each of the three possibilities above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next chapter has a general description of how Python loads packages and modules, and dives
deeper into the specifics of each of the three possibilities above.
```

> How package/modules Loading in Python works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How package/modules loading in Python works
```

installable package and how to specify additional directories to be added
to ``sys.path`` using the environment variable :envvar:`PYTHONPATH`.

Also make sure to :ref:`Add init file to your folders <add_init_py_to_your_folders>`.

Typical structure of packages
-----------------------------

> This is an example structure that you might have in your ``dags`` folder (see below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example structure that you might have in your ``dags`` folder:
```

installable package and how to specify additional directories to be added
to ``sys.path`` using the environment variable :envvar:`PYTHONPATH`.

If you want to import some packages from a directory that is added to ``PYTHONPATH`` you should import
it following the full Python path of the files. All directories where you put your files have to also

> have an empty ``__init__.py`` file which turns it into Python package. Take as an example such structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it using the full Python path of the files. Take as an example such structure
```

Python 3 doesn't need `__init__.py`'s, right, particularly when you're just dealing with a normal dir being added to `PYTHONPATH`?

Reviewer: Maybe mention `__init__.py`'s and link down to the "Add __init__.py in package folders" section?

Author: > Python 3 doesn't need __init__.py's, right, 

That's not entirely correct... I also got that impression for some time, but (at least I see it), it's a bit of a misunderstanding.
bB
Python 3 **can** turn regular folders into implicit packages with their own namespaces, But a number of tools discovering python code (airflow DAG loading including) does not deal with implicit namespaces and still requirea an `__init__.py` files in the folders). 

Maybe I am wrong about it ? @ashb ? But that's the impression I have. 

I did separate it out, but I would love to have a good statement about it.

Author: Just to add a bit of links on that and my thoughts and context for ``__init__.py`` in relation to our DAGs. I've spent quite some time on looking how the packages/namespaces work and while I also had the impression at some point in time that "as of python 3.3 we should drop the `__init__,py` altogether", my understanding of it is a bit different now.

To focus the discussion - here is the PEP in question: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0420 

And here is particular chapter about impact on import finders and loaders: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0420/#impact-on-import-finders-and-loaders 

My understanding of it:

* lack of `__init__.py` in the folder means that (providing that import finder and loader supports it), such folder might be detected as "implicit namespace package" and modules could be added to the package in their own namespace. Separate namespaces mean that the same package can be split across multiple folders. But it really depends on the capabilities of loader/importer. For example in setup.py you need to use `find_namespace_packages` instead of `find_packages` to find the namespace-packages

* some tools/methods that are looking for packages, might not work well with those namespace packages still (they might expect the package = single folder approach for example and break, or might not find the namespace packages at all). Its less and less common, but it happens and even in some cases the tools be default do not find the namespace packages, you have to explicitly enable it (for example in mypy you need to specify `--namespace-packages` flag to find them https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/command_line.html#cmdoption-mypy-namespace-packages

* things can get broken easily if there are same package with `classic` packages with `__init__.py` and namespace packages. There are also couple of legacy way to provide namespaces packages (not all compatible with each other) some of those described here https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1675734/how-do-i-create-a-namespace-package-in-python for example but I think there are also some other ways. There are historically ways to modify `__init__.py` in the way to turn the package into an `explicitly namespaced` one. But they have some limitations (for example you had to have exactly the same ``__init__.py`` content in all the incarnations of the same package in different namespaces.  And if you mixed and matched the different ways of defining namespace they might or might not work and behave `strangely`..

* there is a serious performance implication of using "implicit namespace packages". There is even a note in PEP 420 that there is not even an intention to replace "classic" packages with implicit namespaces:

> There is no intention to remove support of regular packages. If a developer knows that her package will never be a portion of a namespace package, then there is a performance advantage to it being a regular package (with an `__init__.py`). Creation and loading of a regular package can take place immediately when it is located along the path. With namespace packages, all entries in the path must be scanned before the package is created.

I am not even sure if our DAG loader supports implicit namespaces, but even if it does I think we should discourage the use of implicit namespaces for DAGs - if not because of the potential clashes and conflicts with "classic" packages or "explicit namespaces" that people can by accident have on their pythonpath - but also because of performance.

I'd love to hear your thoughts about it :)

Author: Summarising then what this PR is all about in one paragraph (and you can quote me on that and I can add this paragraph to the "modules management"):

> Both relative imports and implicit namespaces while somewhat useful features of Python 3, have potential of being misused, misunderstood and break the installation in implicit ways which are difficult to debug and understand. Rather than trying to make them works with Airflow DAG parsing we strongly discourage people from using them. DAGs should be written using absolute imports and regular "classic" packages with `__init__.py` - for performance reasons, but most of all for the sanity of both the users and committers trying to help them.

😄

Reviewer: Thanks for the detailed response @potiuk, TIL. I knew about (some of) the nuances with `find_namespaces_packages` vs `find_packages`, but the performance advantage is a great reason. I'm happy for us to encourage and show examples of "classic" packages. For the sake of sanity is also a really good argument :)

as described below (the root directory which is on the ``PYTHONPATH`` might be any of the directories

> listed in the next chapter or those that you added manually to the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as described below (the root directory which is on the ``PYTHONPATH``).
```

I'm not sure what you meant by the portion I've removed. Maybe rephrase if it was important?

Author: I am not sure either :) removed it.

Typical structure of packages
-----------------------------

This is an example structure that you might have in your ``dags`` folder (see below)

.. code-block:: none

   <DIRECTORY ON PYTHONPATH>

>    | .airflowignore  -- only needed in in ``dags`` folder, see below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | .airflowignore  -- only needed in ``dags`` folder, see below
```

   | -- my_company
                 | __init__.py
                 | common_package
                 |              |  __init__.py
                 |              | common_module.py
                 |              | subpackage
                 |                         | __init__.py
                 |                         | subpackaged_util_module.py
                 |
                 | my_custom_dags
                                 | __init__.py
                                 | my_dag_1.py
                                 | my_dag_2.py
                                 | base_dag.py

> In the case above, those are the ways you should import the python files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case above, there are the ways you could import the python files:
```

.. code-block:: python

   from my_company.common_package.common_module import SomeClass
   from my_company.common_package.subpackge.subpackaged_util_module import AnotherClass
   from my_company.my_custom_dags.base_dag import BaseDag

You can see the ``.ariflowignore`` file at the root of your folder. This is a file that you can put in your

> ``dags`` folder to tell Airflow which files from the 'dags` folder should be ignored when Airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``dags`` folder to tell Airflow which files from the ``dags`` folder should be ignored when the Airflow
```

- The ``config`` folder: It is configured by setting ``AIRFLOW_HOME`` variable (``{AIRFLOW_HOME}/config``) by default.
- The ``plugins`` Folder: It is configured with option ``plugins_folder`` in section ``[core]``.

.. note::
   DAGS folder in Airflow 2 should not be shared with Webserver. While you can do it, unlike in Airflow 1.10
   Airflow has no expectations that the DAGS folder is present for webserver. In fact it's a bit of
   security risk to share ``dags`` folder with the webserver, because it means that people who write DAGS
   can write code that webserver will be able to execute (And Airflow 2 approach is that webserver should
   never run code which can be modified by users who write DAGs). Therefore if you need to share some code
   with Webserver, it is highly recommended that you share it via ``config`` or ``plugins`` folder or
   via installed airflow packages (see below). Those folders are usually managed and accessible by different
   users (Admins/DevOps) than DAG folders (those are usually data-scientists), so they are considered
   as safe because they are part of configuration of Airflow installation that can be controlled by the

>    people managing the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The DAGS folder in Airflow 2 should not be shared with the webserver. While you can do it, unlike in Airflow 1.10,
   Airflow has no expectations that the DAGS folder is present in the webserver. In fact it's a bit of
   security risk to share the ``dags`` folder with the webserver, because it means that people who write DAGS
   can write code that the webserver will be able to execute (ideally the webserver should
   never run code which can be modified by users who write DAGs). Therefore if you need to share some code
   with the webserver, it is highly recommended that you share it via ``config`` or ``plugins`` folder or
   via installed packages (see below). Those folders are usually managed and accessible by different
   users (Admins/DevOps) than DAG folders (those are usually data-scientists), so they are considered
   safe because they are part of configuration of the Airflow installation and controlled by the
   people managing the installation.
```

Best practices for module loading
---------------------------------

> There are a few watch-outs you should be careful about when you import your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few gotchas you should be careful about when you import your code.
```

Use unique top package name
...........................

It is recommended that you always put your dags/common files in a subpackage which is unique to your
deployment (``my_company`` in the example below). It is far too easy to use generic names for the
folders that will clash with other packages already present in the system. For example if you
create ``airflow/operators`` subfolder it will not be accessible because Airflow already has a package

> named ``airflow.operators`` and it will look there when importing ``from airflow.operators``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
named ``airflow.operators`` and it will look there when importing ``from airflow.operators``.
```

Don't use relative imports
..........................

Never use relative imports (starting with ``.``) that were added in Python 3.

This is tempting to do something like that it in ``my_dag1.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   from .base_dag import BaseDag  # NEVER DO THAT!!!!

You should import such shared dag using full path (starting from the directory which is added to

> ``PYTHONPATH``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``PYTHONPATH``):
```

.. code-block:: python

   from my_company.my_custom_dags.base_dag import BaseDag  # This is cool

The relative imports are counter-intuitive, depending on how you start your python code, they behave
differently. In Airflow the same DAG file might be parsed in different context (by scheduler, by worker
or during the tests) and in those cases, relatives imports might behave differently. Always use full
python package path when you import anything in Airflow DAGs, this will save you a lot of troubles.
You can read more about relative import caveats in

> `this Stack Overflow thread <https://stackoverflow.com/q/16981921/516701>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relative imports are counter-intuitive, and depending on how you start your python code, they can behave
differently. In Airflow the same DAG file might be parsed in different contexts (by schedulers, by workers
or during tests) and in those cases, relatives imports might behave differently. Always use full
python package paths when you import anything in Airflow DAGs, this will save you a lot of troubles.
You can read more about relative import caveats in
`this Stack Overflow thread <https://stackoverflow.com/q/16981921/516701>`_.
```

Add ``__init__.py`` in package folders
......................................

When you create folders you should add ``__init__.py`` file as empty files in your folders. While in Python 3
there is a concept of implicit namespaces where you do not have to add those files to folder, Airflow

> expects that the files are added to all packages you added.

Reviewer: Curious, what breaks with this? My simple toy examples work without `__init__.py`'s?

Author: Hmm. I believe this is not as simple as "Python 3 does not need __init__.py packages" - see my comment above. There is a good reason why we have __init__.py  files in airflow almost everywhere (except providers which is a special case). But maybe I am wrong and we can remove them ?

Reviewer: Going to resolve this too (for context see the other thread).

    Python PATH: [/home/arch/venv/bin:/home/arch/projects/airflow_operators:/usr/lib/python38.zip:/usr/lib/python3.8:/usr/lib/python3.8/lib-dynload:/home/arch/venv/lib/python3.8/site-packages:/home/arch/airflow/dags:/home/arch/airflow/config:/home/arch/airflow/plugins]

Creating a package in Python
----------------------------

> This is most organized way of adding your custom code. Thanks to using the packages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is most organized way of adding your custom code. Thanks to using packages,
```

you might organize your versioning approach, control which versions of the shared code are installed
and deploy the code to all your instances and containers in controlled way - all by system admins/DevOps

> rather than by the DAG writers. It is usually suitable when you have separate team that manages this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rather than by the DAG writers. It is usually suitable when you have a separate team that manages this
```
